{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
29 feb 2020\
\
Set up pilot where I see how many things can stick.\'a0\
\
So I didn't want to measure OD for everything so... I classified each tube as 1,2 or 3. 1 is barely foggy, 2 is I can see text through it, and 3 is I can't see text through it.\'a0\
\
Then I created 1ml mixes of all 9 communities. For 3s I out in half and supplemented with water. For 2s I put in exact amount. 1 is double.\'a0\
Then I took 20ul per strain from each mix to get 1ml of the "50" mix, which is all of them.\'a0\
\
Added 500ul microbes per jar. Fed 100ul tryptone broth.\'a0\
\
I don't know if I'm going to do plate counts .. it would be nice to get incoming viability but really... Ratio of work to pay off? Saved mixture in fridge to hopefully slow down growth. If there's time Sunday might do that.\'a0\
\
Put in shaker at 88rpm. Was 23.5 deg when I put it in at 5:30pm\
\
\
1 march 2020\
\
Fed microbes at 3:15pm. 100ul 1% tryptone each. *** the tryptone looked a little sketchy?? I should have probably borrow some from one of the tubes, but I used it\'85 hopefully it\'92s not actually contaminated :(\
\
Plated old cultures that were in the fridge from yesterday, but did it \'93sketch\'94.\
\
First, I got some old 1mL water tubes (leftover from another experiment) and put 1uL of culture in each. (10-3)\
Then, for Richness levels 1, 8, 12, 19, and 50, I mixed 1uL of the 10-3 into 100uL sterile water 
\f1\i on the plate
\f0\i0 , and plated out.\
\
I ethanol and UV\'92d a test plate for 30min. Then, put 500uL of water tin 8 wells. Put 5uL of each 10-3 culture in it (10-5); pipetted up and down at least 10 times. Plated 10uL of each of that onto the plates (10-7).\
\
I also did an extra 10-6 for 8, 12, 19, and 50 by plating 100uL of the test plates. \
\
\'97\
2 march 2020 and 3 march 2020\'97 fed 100uL somewhere between 3-5pm.\
clear colonies on count plates on 3rd.\
\'97\
4 march 2020\
Checked at 9:30am and wow\'97 the colonies suddenly become coloured! so it looks like it takes ~ 3 days for colour to develop, for future reference.\
Today, I\'92m exposing to Bd.\
- did plate wash with di h2o; 13, 15, 20per square == 4 million/ml. Thus, added 250uL of zoospores to each jar.\
- Swabbed half of membrane on side closest to \'933\'94 on \'93304\'94. Plated at 10-4 and 10-5 dilutions to see if I can get community composition. 1% plates, 1.5% T\
- fed 100uL per jar after exposing to 250uL zoospores.\
\
Fed 100uL per day for 5,6,7\
\
\'97 7 march 2020\
inoculated 4 colours of colonies for OD ruler test (to be done Monday)\
\
\'97 8 march 2020\
methanol for 20 min\
5min PBS soak\
CV for 10 min; then rinsed 3x in PBS, then in fresh again\
\
400uL PI, 100uL CFW, 10 minutes\
rinsed in PBS for 2 min\
(Should have rinsed with diH2O\
\
20\'97 thick coverage; small micro colonies everywhere, which is fairly regular\
small bd zoo sporangia, but none are fully developed. Looks like they are slow growing?\
\
23\'97 spotting coverage; very irregularity patchy with uniform coverage (no micro colonies)\
bd zoo sporangia essentially absent.\
\
30\'97 background fl with some spots of bright red; are these zoospores or bacteria?\
bd zoosporagnia looking a little \'93unhealthy\'94, but most are fully formed. Can see zoospores with PI in some of them. \
\
21\'97 had a tonne???? wtf\
\
25, 28 basically nothing\
\
29 had weird white dots, but can\'92t tell if it\'92s Bd?\
\
for sampling, I first did jars 20, 23, and 30. This is just to see if the dyes were still working.\
Then, I sampled all remaining jars.\
I sampled 100uL from inside the tube to see if it was contaminated. \
\
CV soaked in 200ul acetic acid for 20 min, pipetted up and down 5 times, and put 100uL in new well and read at 590nm.\
\
In summary, I suspect the concentration of nutrients inside the nutrient tube influences bd settlement a lot. OR there is some sort of facilitation going on between certain microbes. \
\
I may need to do ANOTHER pilot\'85 :( Simply to see if I can get consistent Bd settlement on membranes.\
\
\
\'97\'97 1 0march 2020\
Only jar 22 was contamined inside; all others were clean.\
This was also the \'9350\'94 jar\'97 I wonder if this was a coincidence, or whether there are some really small bacteria? Could be that with 50 strains, there are tiny guys that get into the membranes.\
\
}